.TH CSOL 6
.SH NAME
csol \- play solitaire
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B csol
[\fB\-ChlmSTv\fR]
[\fB-c\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB-s\fR \fIseed\fR]
[\fB\-t\fR \fItheme\fR]
[\fIgame\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B csol
is a small collection of solitaire games.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c\ \fIfile\fR ", " \-\-config =\fIfile\fR
Set the configuration file to use.
.TP
.BR \-C ", " \-\-colors
Display all colors currently available in the terminal. This may be useful when creating themes
for \fBcsol\fR. Press any key to exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show a summary of the available command-line options then exit.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list
Show a list of available games then exit.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-mono
Disable all colors.
.TP
.BR \-s\ \fIseed\fR ", " \-\-seed =\fIseed\fR
Set the seed used for shuffling cards. Must be an integer. By default the current time is used as
seed.
.TP
.BR \-S ", " \-\-scores
If no \fIgame\fR has been selected, then a table of scores and statistics for all games is shown.
If a \fIgame\fR has been selected, a list of all scores in that \fIgame\fR is shown.
.TP
.BR \-t\ \fItheme\fR ", " \-\-theme =\fItheme\fR
Set the theme to use for drawing cards. Use \fB\-\-theme\fR to see a list of all available themes.
.TP
.BR \-T ", " \-\-themes
Show a list of available themes then exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Show the \fBcsol\fR version then exit.
.SH KEYS
.TP
.B h, j, k, l, Left, Down, Up, Right
Move cursor left, down, up, or right.
.TP
.B H, L, S-Left, S-Right
Move cursor to the leftmost or rightmost position.
.TP
.B J, S-Down
Move cursor to the bottommost position of the pile under the cursor or the topmost visible card of the next pile down
if already at the bottommost position.
.TP
.B K, S-Up
Move cursor to the topmost position of the pile under the cursor or the bottommost card of the next pile up if already
at or above the topmost visible card.
.TP
.B Space
Select the card under the cursor, or - if the card is already selected - move the selected card
to a foundation or free cell if possible.
.TP
.B m, Enter, ^J
Move the selected card to the pile under the cursor.
.TP
.B a
Automatically move a card from any tableau, waste, or cell to a foundation pile if possible.
.TP
.B s
Move a card from the stock to the waste or redeal if stock is empty.
.TP
.B W
Move card from the waste to the pile under the cursor.
.TP
.B 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
Move a card from a cell (in Frecell-style games) to the pile under the cursor.
.TP
.B u, ^Z
Undo one or more moves.
.TP
.B U, ^Y, ^R
Redo a move that was previously undone.
.TP
.B Esc, ^[
Clear the current selection.
.TP
.B ^S
Toggle smart cursor, see \fBsmart_cursor\fR in the configuration section.
.TP
.B ^V
Toggle vertical stabilization of smart cursor, see \fBkeep_vertical_position\fR in the configuration section.
.TP
.B ^L
Redraw the screen.
.TP
.B r
Shuffle the deck and deal a new game.
.TP
.B q
Exit \fBcsol\fR.
.SH MOUSE
In terminals with mouse support it's possible to select cards using the left mouse button (same as \fBSpace\fR) and to move cards using the right mouse button (same as \fBm\fR).
.SH EXAMPLES
To play Klondike Solitaire, use the command:
.PP
.nf
.RS
csol klondike
.RE
.fi
.PP
To display all your Klondike scores, use the command:
.PP
.nf
.RS
csol -S klondike
.RE
.fi
.PP
.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration can be changed by creating or editing the file \fI~/.config/csol/csolrc\fR.
A \fBcsol\fR configuration file consists of a newline separated list of commands.
Most commands expect a single parameter.

An example configuration file that loads the system-wide configuration file, and changes the default game to Yukon:
.PP
.nf
.RS
include /etc/xdg/csol/csolrc
default_game yukon
.RE
.fi
.PP
The following top level commands are available:
.TP
.B default_game \fIgame\fR
Set the game that is selected by default when \fBcsol\fR is run without arguments.
.TP
.B default_Theme \fItheme\fR
Set the theme that is selected by default when \fBcsol\fR is run without the \fB\-t\fR option.
.TP
.B scores \fIbit\fR
Enable (1) or disable (0) the use of a file for keeping track of game scores.
.TP
.B stats \fIbit\fR
Enable (1) or disable (0) the use of a file for keeping track of game statistics.
.TP
.B scores_file \fIfile\fR
Set the file path used for the scores file.
.TP
.B stats_file \fIfile\fR
Set the file path used for the stats file.
.TP
.B show_score \fIbit\fR
Enable (1) or disable (0) display of the current score in the bottom left corner of the screen.
.TP
.B smart_cursor \fIbit\fR
Enable (1) or disable (0) the use of smart cursor movement. When enabled, the cursor will
always move to a card.
.TP
.B keep_vertical_position \fIbit\fR
When enabled, the smart cursor behavior is changed so that the vertical position of the cursor doesn't
change when moving horizontally. This means that the cursor doesn't always move to a card when changing
horizontal position.
.TP
.B alt_cursor \fIbit\fR
When enabled, a different style of cursor is used.
.TP
.B include \fIfile\fR
Execute the commands of another configuration \fIfile\fR. Useful for including the system-wide
configuration (i.e. games and themes) into your local configuration file.
.TP
.B theme_dir \fIdirectory\fR
Lazily load themes from \fIdirectory\fR. When listing themes with \fB\-T\fR, all configuration
files in \fIdirectory\fR will be loaded. When playing a game, only the selected theme will be
loaded based on its filename.
.TP
.B game_dir \fIdirectory\fR
Lazily load games from \fIdirectory\fR. When listing games with \fB\-l\fR, all configuration
files in \fIdirectory\fR will be loaded. When playing a game, only the selected game will be
loaded based on its filename.
.PP
It's possible to define new games and themes using the \fBcsol\fR configuration langauge. For more details, see
.IR https://github.com/nielssp/csol .
.SH LINKS
.I https://github.com/nielssp/csol
